README.md, before:

<img src="https://github.com/M-Izadmehr/deadfile/raw/master/docs/images/logo.png" alt="deadfile" width="100"/>

# deadfile

Simple util to find deadcode and unused files in any JavaScript project (ES5, ES6, React, Vue, ...).

* **Easy to use**
* Out of box support for ES5, ES6, React, Vue, ESM, CommonJs.
* **Error tolerant:** deadfile uses loose parsing of your code, so if there are errors in your code, it still works. Even if you use some random babel config, it will parse your code and find imports.
* **Syntax support:** it supports import/require and even dynamic import.
* Shows you a warning for the node_modules you import, but do not appearin your package.json


![deadfile result](./docs/images/screenshot.png "Code Analysis")


## Installation
Install deadfile cli with the following command:

**npm**
```bash
$ npm install -g deadfile
```
**yarn**
```bash
$ yarn global add deadfile
```
**npx**
```bash
$ npx deadfile <file>
```

## Usage and Examples
simple:               
 ```bash
 deadfile ./src/index.js
 ```

multiple entry:        
```bash
deadfile ./src/index.js ./src/entry2.js
```

with custom directory: 
```bash
deadfile ./src/index.js --dir /path/to/other/folder
```

with  exclude:         
```bash
deadfile ./src/index.js --exclude tests  utils/webpack
```

## What it does
### Supported Syntaxes
All major ES Module imports are supported (including dynamic import):
![Import Syntax](./docs/images/supportedImports.png "Import Syntax")

Also the following export (aggregation) syntaxes are also supported:
![Export Aggregation Syntax](./docs/images/supportedExports.png "Export Aggregation Syntax")

### Development Environment
You can use `deadfile` for any JavaScript project, and go crazy with you code, use the latest features and it still works. Here are some examples:

#### JSX
![React Example](./docs/images/React.png "React Example")

### Vue
![Vue Example](./docs/images/Vue.png "Vue Example")

#### Reassigned requires

`deadfile` look for import declarations and calls of the `require` function. As a result, if you assign `require` to another var and use it to load a dependency, it will not handle it.


### Options
- **entry**: all arguments directly after `deadfile` are considered as entries (yes, deadfile supports multiple entries)        
```bash
deadfile ./src/index.js ./src/entry2.js
```
- **--dir**: set search in another folder:
```bash
deadfile <file> --dir /path/to/other/folder
```
- **--exclude**: list of paths to ignore:

Paths or files to exclude from search. It supports any valid RegExp expression to exclude:
```
deadfile <file> --exclude ^(\w)png$
deadfile <file> --exclude webpack utils docs
```

## Todo
* handle reassigned require
* look for dead declarations too
* Add support AMD
* be able to include/exclude paths/extentions based on relPath/regex
* allow file extensions for parsing, should default to (.js/.jsx/.ts/.tsx/.vue)
* Add SASS import

Commit message:

feat(report): add write file report

README.md, after:

<img src="https://github.com/M-Izadmehr/deadfile/raw/master/docs/images/logo.png" alt="deadfile" width="100"/>

# deadfile

Simple util to find deadcode and unused files in any JavaScript project (ES5, ES6, React, Vue, ...).

* **Easy to use**
* Out of box support for ES5, ES6, React, Vue, ESM, CommonJs.
* **Error tolerant:** deadfile uses loose parsing of your code, so if there are errors in your code, it still works. Even if you use some random babel config, it will parse your code and find imports.
* **Syntax support:** it supports import/require and even dynamic import.
* Shows you a warning for the node_modules you import, but do not appearin your package.json


![deadfile result](https://github.com/M-Izadmehr/deadfile/raw/master/docs/images/screenshot.png "Code Analysis")


## Installation
Install deadfile cli with the following command:

**npm**
```bash
$ npm install -g deadfile
```
**yarn**
```bash
$ yarn global add deadfile
```
**npx**
```bash
$ npx deadfile <file>
```

## Usage and Examples
simple:               
 ```bash
 deadfile ./src/index.js
 ```

multiple entry:        
```bash
deadfile ./src/index.js ./src/entry2.js
```

with custom directory: 
```bash
deadfile ./src/index.js --dir /path/to/other/folder
```

with  exclude:         
```bash
deadfile ./src/index.js --exclude tests  utils/webpack
```

## What it does
### Supported Syntaxes
All major ES Module imports are supported (including dynamic import):
![Import Syntax](https://github.com/M-Izadmehr/deadfile/raw/master/docs/images/supportedImports.png "Import Syntax")

Also the following export (aggregation) syntaxes are also supported:
![Export Aggregation Syntax](https://github.com/M-Izadmehr/deadfile/raw/master/docs/images/supportedExports.png "Export Aggregation Syntax")

### Development Environment
You can use `deadfile` for any JavaScript project, and go crazy with you code, use the latest features and it still works. Here are some examples:

#### JSX
![React Example](https://github.com/M-Izadmehr/deadfile/raw/master/docs/images/React.png "React Example")

### Vue
![Vue Example](https://github.com/M-Izadmehr/deadfile/raw/master/docs/images/Vue.png "Vue Example")

#### Reassigned requires

`deadfile` look for import declarations and calls of the `require` function. As a result, if you assign `require` to another var and use it to load a dependency, it will not handle it.


### Options
- **entry**: all arguments directly after `deadfile` are considered as entries (yes, deadfile supports multiple entries)        
```bash
deadfile ./src/index.js ./src/entry2.js
```
- **--dir**: set search in another folder:
```bash
deadfile <file> --dir /path/to/other/folder
```
- **--exclude**: list of paths to ignore:

Paths or files to exclude from search. It supports any valid RegExp expression to exclude:
``` bash
deadfile <file> --exclude ^(\w)png$
deadfile <file> --exclude webpack utils docs
```

-**--output**: used to write report results in `.json` file

You can specify the file to write, a json file including file lists:
``` bash
deadfile <file> --output report.json
```


## Todo
* handle reassigned require
* look for dead declarations too
* Add support AMD
* be able to include/exclude paths/extentions based on relPath/regex
* allow file extensions for parsing, should default to (.js/.jsx/.ts/.tsx/.vue)
* Add SASS import
